biochemical that other journals were now occupying those niches, including Rockefeller's own Biophysical Journal. De facto, therefore, the content of the journal was concentrated in areas that he viewed as properly known as cell biology. Porter indicated that the name change would thus reflect the niche that the journal inhabited, partly as a result of pressure from other sources. He suggested that such external determination of the niche may not be a bad thing: "If we acknowledge this and keep the initiative we may effectively serve the increasing interest being shown in the cell as a unit and in the correlation of fine structure and function." The new name was approved later that summer and the first issue as the Journal of Cell Biology (volume 12, number 1) was published in January 1962. With this change the journal and, indirectly, the domain for the discipline came to fit more closely Porter's own vision.

The newly-named journal was clearly very successful. It expanded rapidly in terms of subscribers, number of submissions, and size and rate of publication. Initially the journal had appeared every other month with a volume consisting of the year's six issues. In 1959 the number of pages per issue was increased and a volume was redefined as including only three issues (thereby allowing the journal to increase the annual price without increasing the price per volume). Yet the number of submissions continued to increase so rapidly that as of April 1960 Porter reported a backlog of over 100 accepted manuscripts. Accordingly, an additional issue was published in July 1960 as a temporary stopgap, and publication expanded to monthly in 1961. The journal had reached 1700 subscriptions by January 1960 and 3000 by 1965.

Content became more diverse as the number of pages and subscribers multiplied. The journal had already been moving beyond morphological studies of cells with electron microscopy before its change of name, and less than two years later Executive Editor Raymond Griffiths ${ }^{15}$ was able to announce in The Annual Report for 1963, "Papers on cell fine structure alone no longer predominate; a steadily increasing percentage of submitted manuscripts pertains to the investigation of other aspects of the cell and its products, and to studies utilizing various combinations of technical approaches - of electron microscopy, cytochemistry, biochemistry (cell fractionation, isolation and analysis of cell components), biophysics (autoradiography), molecular biology, as well as others - in the analysis of basic problems of the cell. Especially noticeable is the trend toward more reports focusing on the quantitative aspects of biological events."16
\footnotetext{
15 Griffiths was hired as Executive Editor of the Journal in December 1960. He held a Ph.D. from Princeton and an M.D. from Northwestern and had previously managed and edited publications of the American Cancer Society.

${ }^{16}$ Folder 4, box 1, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC.
}