of membrane systems. The second part focused on elementary particles in membrane systems, and the third on synthesis of mitochondria. The overall topic, and especially the second symposium, was closely related to Green's own interest in particles that could be isolated from the mitochondrial membrane and figured in mechanisms of electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation. The invited portion of the program included not only a number of researchers from Green's home institution of the University of Wisconsin (especially the Enzyme Institute) but also Britton Chance and Elfraim Racker, two biochemists who often differed with Green on interpretation of the particles he had isolated from the mitochondrial membrane. The following year another biochemist, Lee Peachey, served as program chair and he followed the same strategy as Green, organizing a three-part symposium. Its topic was subcellular movement, with one part focusing on physical and physical-chemical aspects (electron and proton mobility, movement of functional groups, and molecular movement, including conformational changes and movement of molecules), another part on translocation of ions and small molecules (ionic movement in mitochondria and other membrane systems), and a third on recent progress on biological movement (chromosome movement, spindle fibers, flagella, cilia, etc.).

These efforts did provide a significant presence of biochemistry on the programs of the ASCB, and a few biochemists became affiliated with the ASCB over the long term (e.g., Novikoff, Rollin Hotchkiss, Philip Siekevitz) The broader goal, however, was not achieved. Biochemists, like biophysicists, already had their own institutions and journals, which provided their primary institutional base. As cell biology became more institutionalized and developed its own departments in universities as well as journals and societies, cell biologists incorporated those tools of biochemistry that were important to them in the practice of cell biology. Biochemists had already become the primary users of cell fractionation techniques, adopted from early cell biology. Accordingly, the concern with reaching out to biochemists declined over time.

One of the main issues that confronted the new society was the question of sponsoring a journal. It arose at the first meeting of the permanent ASCB council on 9 December 1961 (the provisional council had deferred all matters that might imply long-term commitments for the society). Philip Siekevitz advanced a proposal for affiliation with the Journal of Cellular and Comparative Physiology, published by the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology. That journal, which had begun publication in 1932, was widely viewed as in need of reinvigorization. Hewson Swift and Alex Novikoff reported on discussions with James Danielli, editor of International Review of Cytology,