S. Gasser, who had just stepped down as director of the Rockefeller Institute. Porter took the idea to Detlev Bronk, who had replaced Gasser and was given the title of President of the Rockefeller Institute. Because the Institute already published two related journals, the Journal of General Physiology and the Journal of Experimental Medicine, it was a natural candidate to publish such a journal. ${ }^{5}$

Bronk was extremely receptive to the idea and, after discussing it with others in the emerging field (especially H. Stanley Bennett and Francis O. Schmitt), made a proposal that the Board of Trustees of the Rockefeller Institute approved in January 1954 to establish a Journal of Cytology. Bronk's proposal characterized the new journal as follows:

It is proposed that it deal with cytology from the point of view of the anatomist and histologist; the physiologist; the biochemist; and especially the histochemist, and those concerned with the development of the exciting new physical and chemical methods for investigation of the submicroscopic molecular structure of cells. This journal would deal with the results of studies made possible by the electron microscope, Xray diffraction methods, etcetera, but it certainly would not concentrate on such methods inasmuch as the course of cytology will ultimately move on with the aid of other unanticipated, undeveloped methods. ${ }^{6}$

From the outset, the focus of the journal was a point of contention. Porter's primary interest was electron microscopy and so a major objective for him was creating a journal able to reproduce electron micrographs with high enough quality. (Porter, for example, had several engravers prepare sample proofs so as to determine which would produce the highest quality plates.) A letter from Bennett to Bronk on 3 December 1953 emphasized a similar concern. After identifying the electron microscope as the principle instrument responsible for the recent advances in cytology, which put "the world... on the threshold of a classical period of advance in cytological knowledge, comparable in
\footnotetext{
was more than a little incensed because no one had asked his opinion. (He was listed as editor of both journals.) While in this mood he too said we should start a new journal" (folder 5, box 2, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC).

${ }^{5}$ Although Porter committed himself to the creation of his new journal, he was not so kind when Sjöstrand proposed to create another one. In a letter to Franz Schrader on 8 June 1956 Porter stated, "I heard a few days ago that F. Sjöstrand, Stockholm, feels there is adequate excuse to start another journal for papers on fine structure etc. Academic would publish it. If you have any strong feelings against such a venture I wish you would make them known to Mr. Jacoby at Academic" (folder 10, box 1, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC). Nonetheless, Sjöstrand's new journal, The Journal of Ultrastructure Research, began publication in 1957.

${ }^{6}$ Folder 10, box 1, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC.
}