\title{
Discovering Cell Mechanisms
}

Porter's 23 June 1961 letter arguing for the new name had brought up one final consideration: the emergence of The American Society for Cell Biology (ASCB). Porter portrayed the society as a likely usurper unless a change of name brought alliance instead: "Should we decide to make this revision in name, we must move quickly. The immediate danger is that someone else will start a journal with these specific aims and this suggested name. One new organization - The American Society for Cell Biology - is particularly menacing in this regard. If, in fact, the editors of the J.B.B.C. recommend the change, the new society will be encouraged more than now to adopt the Journal as its official publication; and there is much to be said for societysponsored journals, especially in guaranteeing the publication a long life." The reference to a "menacing" threat from the American Society for Cell Biology is particularly interesting because Porter himself was playing a major, if not the major, role in shaping the society and others involved had been, to that point, reluctant to consider starting a journal. Porter achieved his goal of bringing the two institutions into alignment. Shortly after the journal's name was changed to the Journal of Cell Biology, the ASCB approached Bronk with the suggestion of becoming a cosponsor of the journal. I will return to the question of society sponsorship after discussing the origins of the ASCB.

\section*{2. CREATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR CELL BIOLOGY}

The initiative to create a society for cell biology in the United States appears to have originated with Paul Weiss, who already was active in the International Society for Cell Biology. He sought action toward this goal from the U.S. National Committee for the International Union of Biological Sciences (a committee under the auspices of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, which is officially responsible for U.S. membership in the international unions for various scientific disciplines). They complied by passing a resolution on 6 April 1959 calling for the establishment of a "national society of cell biology to act as a national representative to the International Society for Cell Biology." This resolution was transmitted to Morgan Harris, president of the Tissue Culture Association (TCA), a technique-based society devoted to fostering use of tissue culture as a research tool within biology and medicine. ${ }^{17}$
\footnotetext{
17 The TCA was created (initially with the name Tissue Culture Commission) in 1946 at the conclusion of a three-day conference in Hershey, PA, funded by the American Cancer Society and sponsored jointly by the panels on cellular physiology, cytochemistry, and nutrition of the Committee on Growth. The commission had two aims: to prepare and make available
}