In part, this debate played itself out in setting up the board of editors. Porter (letter to Bronk, 2 February 1954) initially put forward a list of eleven names: Bennett, J. Norman Davidson, Edward Dempsey, Berwind P. Kaufmann, Lehninger, Daniel Mazia, Palade, Porter, Schmitt, Arnold Seligman, and Albert Frey-Wyssling. Schmitt (letter to Bronk, 9 February 1954) objected that Porter's list overemphasized descriptive morphology; he identified Bennett, Dempsey, Palade, and Porter as all representing this area. Schmitt proposed several alternative candidates. Bronk's final choice of eight editors included six from Porter's initial list of eleven. Three were pioneers in electron microscopy who were moving beyond traditional cytology to establish cell biology as a new discipline: Bennett (University of Washington), Palade (Rockefeller), and Porter (Rockefeller). The others were Lehninger (biochemist, Johns Hopkins), Schmitt (biophysicist, MIT), and Seligman (histochemist, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore) from Porter's list; Richard Bear (crystallographer, MIT) from Schmitt's suggestions; and Franz Schrader (cytogeneticist, Columbia) as Bronk's own addition. Because the editorial offices were located at Rockefeller, Porter and Palade were the resident editors overseeing the ongoing operations of the journal. Palade managed the incoming manuscripts, sending each to two of the editors. If they agreed on publication or rejection, that was the final decision; if they disagreed, a third editor or a specially chosen referee decided the question.

The question of the focus of the journal, however, went beyond deciding on editors and procedures for evaluating manuscripts. When the editors met with Bronk on 12 April 1954, they debated the name of the journal. Some objected to Journal of Cytology, the working name for the new journal, on the grounds that cytology conveyed too much of a focus on morphology and not enough on the functional perspectives. Accordingly, the adjectives biophysical and biochemical were added to the title. ${ }^{9}$ The editors also arrived at a mission statement for the new journal that reveals significant concessions to Schmitt's concerns:

It will be the function of this new publication to provide a common medium for the presentation of morphological, biochemical and biophysical studies of the structure of cells and their components and of the functions of these components. The Journal will give special attention to investigations dealing with cellular organization at colloidal and molecular levels. Papers will be favored
\footnotetext{
9 According to George Pappas (Interview, 23 October 1995, University of Illinois Chicago), Francis Schmitt and Paul Weiss were principally responsible for the new name. Hewson Swift (Interview, 24 October 1995, University of Chicago) maintained that the title was likely Porter's. This seems less likely, given Porter's later enthusiasm for changing the name.
}