members of the field of cell biology continued to identify themselves with the institutions of the field in which they were trained, as the new institutions took root, younger researchers tended to identify themselves as cell biologists.

Scientific institutions do not create themselves. Establishing and sustaining them requires effort, and those scientists who play leading roles in such institutions often devote a significant amount of their professional energies to them. Creating and maintaining institutions also involves deciding on the character of the institutions, and this in turn will shape the area of scientific research. In particular, these decisions will determine what kinds of research will be considered as part of that area of scientific research. In cell biology, as we have already seen in Chapter 6, two different styles of research were developed by Palade, Porter, and others at the Rockefeller Institute in New York and by Sjöstrand at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm. Researchers within the broader spheres of influence of each institute sought to shape the contours of the emerging field not only by performing, presenting, and publishing groundbreaking research but also by helping to establish new journals and societies.

In Europe, the International Society for Cell Biology was established in 1947 under the umbrella of the International Union of Biological Sciences. (Its predecessor, the International Society for Experimental Cytology, had been founded in 1933.) In the same year the Institute for Cell Research was established at the Karolinska Institute with Torbjörn Caspersson as its director. In 1950 he, together with John Runnström, created the journal Experimental Cell Research and two years later Geoffrey Bourne and James Danielli created the International Review of Cytology (both sponsored by the International Society for Cell Biology). ${ }^{1}$ In 1957 Fritiof Sjöstrand established the Journal of Ultrastructure Research.

In the United States, two institutions promoting cell biology as a new interdisciplinary field arose in the 1950s and 1960s. The Journal of Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology was first conceptualized in 1953 and already in 1955 had published its first issue; it switched to its current name, the Journal of Cell Biology, in 1962. The American Society for Cell Biology began in 1960, sponsored its first meeting in 1961, and formed an affiliation with the
\footnotetext{
${ }^{1}$ Between 1962 and 1970 the International Society for Cell Biology also sponsored a series of symposia. In 1972 the society dissolved itself in favor of the International Federation for Cell Biology, comprised of the American Society for Cell Biology, the European Cell Biology Organization (a federation of national and regional societies in Europe), and the Japanese Society for Cell Biology. The Federation held its first meeting in St. Louis in 1972, hosted by the American Society for Cell Biology.
}