Despite this optimistic assessment of success in moving beyond electron microscopy, though, the topic of diversity of manuscripts continued in subsequent years.

One of the principal ways in which the journal sought to attract manuscripts in areas other than morphology was to have particular editors represent these domains. Thus, when the question of adding or replacing editors arose, one of the primary considerations was securing scientists with appropriate specialties to attract manuscripts. For example, in 1958 the editors voted to expand their number to ten. Although they advanced four names, Porter (letter to Bronk, 29 August 1958) made a special comment on two of them, Paul Doty and Daniel Mazia: "Doty was selected because he is a biophysically oriented investigator. Mazia - because he is a cell physiologist." At the urging of Bronk, the editors began to replace themselves in 1959 (drawing lots for the "privilege" of retiring). The editors recommended replacements from the same research area as the retiring member so as to continue to cover a broad range of research areas. Accordingly, when Schmitt and Porter were chosen to retire, and Bennett resigned, Bernard Davis was selected to replace Schmitt and Don Fawcett to replace Bennett. (A majority of editors wrote in Porter's name, arguing that because he was de facto the chief editor, he was needed to provide continuity.)

Another strategy the journal tried was the creation of special supplemental issues. The first of these, which appeared as a supplement to volume 2 in September 1956, consisted of papers presented at a Conference on Tissue Fine Structure in January of that year. At the first meeting of the editorial board on April 15, 1956, the members had discussed occasionally reprinting classical papers translated into English. They revisited the suggestion at several meetings and finally agreed to reprint a classic paper along with contemporary papers by major researchers on the same topic. The editors sought external funding for this effort, and received a grant for $\$ 15,000$ from the United States Public Heath Service. Porter edited the first such supplement (appearing in August 1961); it focused on muscle and was organized around a translation of Emilio Veratti's 1901 paper "Investigations on the Fine Structure of Striated Muscle Fiber." Papers by C. R. Skoglund; James F. Reger; David S. Smith; Don W. Fawcett and Jean Paul Revel; Lee D. Peachey; Alexander Mauro and W. Robert Adams; U. Muscatello, Ebba AnderssonCedergren, G. F. Azzone, and Alexandra von der Decken; and Keith Porter accompanied it. Daniel Mazia edited a second special issue on mitosis, built around Walther Flemming's 1880 "Beiträge zur Kenntnis der Zelle und Ihrer Lebenserscheinungen," which appeared in April 1965.