\title{
Discovering Cell Mechanisms
}

which integrate information derived from newer approaches to cytology, such as histochemistry, cytogenetics, cytochemistry, electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction. Because of the significance of photographic evidence, the publishers of the Journal will endeavor to insure excellence of photoengravings and printing.

The first issue of the Journal of Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology appeared in January 1955. Including the words biochemical and biophysical in the title did not guarantee that these would figure centrally in the journal, and Schmitt's concern that the new journal not become a journal of electron microscopy continued to occupy the editors at their annual meetings during the journal's initial years. For example, in reporting to Bronk on the April 15, 1956, meeting of the editors (a little over a year into publication), Porter related, "It was agreed that morphological studies had been well represented among the published papers but that papers more properly defined as biophysical and biochemical in nature had been in short supply. Drs. Bear and Lehninger agreed to give this problem their personal attention." But the problem continued in subsequent years. ${ }^{10}$ In their 1959 report to the other editors, Porter and Palade, the resident editors, related,

The editors have all expressed some concern about the predominance of reports on cell and tissue fine structure, derived from electron microscopy. We have therefore made an analysis of trends in the subject matter of manuscripts contributed and are pleased to report that it shows the Journal receiving a steadily increasing number of papers of the non-E.M. variety. Early in volume 4, e.g., reports primarily dependent on electron micrographic evidence exceeded the others by 2 to 1 whereas in the last number of volume 4 they were equal. Since then this trend has continued and, of the manuscripts currently available to us, only $2 / 5$ report solely E.M. evidence. It would seem that our contributors and readers now recognize that the Journal is interested in cell biology regardless of the experiment, device or technique used to acquire the information. ${ }^{11}$

${ }^{10}$ Schmitt, responding to a summary of the 1957 editors' meeting that he had to miss, wrote to Keith Porter on 18 May 1957: "I shall personally try to secure more biophysical and biochemical papers, for I agree that descriptive morphological papers far outweigh the more physical and chemical ones" (folder 11, box 1, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC). Even though Porter himself identified closely with electron microscopy, he too recognized the need for a broader range of papers. In a letter welcoming Donald Fawcett as a new editor of the journal (9 October 1959) Porter commented, "Anything you can do to keep your friends from sending us long descriptive manuscripts on anything and everything they can get into the E.M. will be appreciated. More "biophysics" is what we need!" (folder 11, box 1, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC).

${ }^{11}$ Folder 11, Box 1, RU 518, Rockefeller University Archives, RAC.