about how the society might help improve the quality of that journal. Later in the meeting the suggestion of affiliating with the Journal of Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology was raised. To encourage interest in this third option, Porter reported on the nature of the linkage between the Journal of General Physiology (also published by Rockefeller University Press) and the Society of General Physiologists. At the meeting a motion was passed to appoint a committee to study publication options, but apparently no action was taken immediately.

The next spring Runnström invited the ASCB to appoint one or more representatives to the editorial board of the international journal he edited, Experimental Cell Research. At this stage Fawcett asked Swift to chair a Committee on Publication (the other members were Novikoff, Porter, Prescott, Siekevitz, and Solomon). The committee moved quickly and by the annual meeting in November 1962 made its recommendation that the society associate with the newly renamed Journal of Cell Biology. Bronk accepted the proposal the next month and in the spring of 1963 the ASCB membership approved it. A procedure was established so that, starting in 1964, the ASCB began to nominate half of the editors for the journal (the society nominated two candidates for each society slot on the editorial board, and the current editors selected among them). As part of its commitment to involve biochemists more centrally, the society emphasized biochemists among its nominees.

The activities of a professional society such as ASCB extend beyond sponsoring annual conferences; another important function is to promote knowledge of cell biology in the broader community. With the third meeting, held in New York City in November 1963, the society began to sponsor a pre-meeting for high school teachers. The first pre-meeting was held at the Rockefeller Institute and was co-sponsored by the High School Biology Teacher's Association. ${ }^{24}$ Organized by Philip Siekevitz, the meeting featured presentations by George Palade, Van Potter, Wolfgang Joklik, and David Prescott. Starting with the seventh meeting in 1967, the society sponsored a symposium for high school students that involved both a number of talks and a guided tour of the commercial exhibits designed to educate students as to the kinds of instruments used in research (not to mention making the public more generally aware of their cost). ${ }^{25}$
\footnotetext{
${ }^{24}$ This was the name stated in the minutes but presumably the cosponsor was the National Association of Biology Teachers.

25 The sessions for high school students appear to have been very successful. Joseph Gall urged society members not to attend the session because a very large turnout was expected and there might not be enough space. A second symposium for high school students was held in 1968 with talks by R. Perry, H. Lyman, and D. Beattie.
}