selection bias associated with the retrospective design, this study suggests that men with urethral stricture disease have a higher incidence of low serum testosterone. Further, this work questions whether TD has a role in the pathogenesis of urethral strictures leading to more severe disease as TD was associated with stricture length.

Bonilla et al. [26] recently published an abstract form a cross sectional case-control study of men presenting to one institution evaluating TD in men with urethral stricture disease. They compared serum testosterone levels in men presenting for urethral stricture evaluation to men presenting for non-voiding related complaints. They had 120 men with urethral stricture and 41 controls. There were no differences in demographics or comorbidities between groups. Mean serum testosterone levels were significantly lower ( $391 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}$ vs $495 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}, p<0.01$ ) in men with urethral strictures although the mean was above $300 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}$ in both groups. Men with urethral stricture disease also had higher levels of follicle stimulating hormone $(10.7 \mathrm{mIU} / \mathrm{mL}$ vs $5.01 \mathrm{mIU} / \mathrm{mL}, p<0.01$ ) and luteinizing hormone ( 6.2 $\mathrm{mIU} / \mathrm{mL}$ vs $4.2 \mathrm{mIU} / \mathrm{mL}, p<0.01$ ). Serum testosterone was $<300 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}$ in significantly more men with urethral stricture disease ( $35.8 \%$ vs $14.6 \%, p<0.007$; OR 3.2 , CI 1.27-8.33) [26]. These studies taken together demonstrate a growing body of evidence that TD is more common in men with urethral stricture disease. It is still, however, unclear if serum testosterone has a role in stricture pathogenesis.

\section*{5. Testosterone Supplementation and Urethral Vascularity}

As the evidence supporting a link between low serum testosterone and urethral vascularity grows, efforts shifted toward determining if urethral vascularity could be improved with hormone supplementation. Yura and colleagues [27] first evaluated this in a rat model. They divided 24 Sprague Dawley rats into four groups: non-castrate control, castrate, castrate with testosterone supplementation, and castrate with estrogen supplementation. They compared AR, TIE-2, and CD31 expression between groups. CD31 is a sensitive marker for vascular tissue. CD31 was decreased in castrated rats compared to controls. AR and TIE-2 were not detected in the castrate group. Following supplementation with testosterone the overall vessel count, AR, and TIE-2 expression increased significantly. Testosterone restored CD31 and AR expression to higher levels than the non-castrate control group [27]. Estrogen supplementation improved CD31 but not AR or TIE-2 expression [27]. These findings demonstrate that testosterone supplementation restores periurethral vascularity in an animal model.

The same group then assessed the impact of hormone supplementation on urethral tissue following urethroplasty in a rat model [28]. They allocated 48 rats to the same groups (non-castrate control, castrate, castrate with testosterone supplementation, and castrate with estrogen supple- mentation). In each group half of the rats underwent a Heineke Mikulicz style urethroplasty. CD31 expression was used to assess tissue vascularity and it was increased post-operatively in the control group as well as the testosterone and estrogen arms compared to the castrate arm. AR expression was slightly decreased in those that received surgery compared to no surgery in the testosterone supplementation arm ( $5.21 \%$ vs $4.24 \%, p=0.042$ ). TIE-2 expression was increased in both the control $(0.43 \%$ vs $0.85 \%, p$ $=0.001$ ) and testosterone supplementation cohort $(0.20 \%$ vs $0.70 \%, p<0.001$ ) following urethroplasty. They then found postoperative CD31 was correlated with TIE-2 ( $r=$ $0.454, p<0.001)$ and AR $(r=0.561, p<0.001)$ expression suggesting a mechanistic relationship [28].

The fascinating work by this group demonstrates that not only does testosterone supplementation improve urethral vascularity but that it is also true in a perioperative environment. They also suggest that postoperative angiogenesis is an androgen driven process. The rats who underwent surgery did not have urethral stricture disease and it remains unclear how urethral pathology would impact these results. Prior work has shown urethral stricture tissue has decreased vascularity [23]; therefore, it is reasonable to believe postoperative angiogenesis would still be improved with androgen supplementation. Additionally, the comparison group was not just TD, but castrate and it is possible that these results may not extrapolate to subjects with less degree of TD.

\section*{6. Future Directions}

Over the last 5-6 years, much has been learned regarding the impact of testosterone on urethral vascularity and stricture disease (Table 1, Ref [18,19,23-28]). However, there is still more work to be done as this emerging area translates into clinical practice. First, the role of testosterone on urethral stricture etiology remains unclear Is there a direct pathogenesis where low serum testosterone creates an ischemic environment leading to urethral strictures in men? If so, what portion of idiopathic urethral strictures are secondary to TD? Does TD and poor urethral vascularity prevent wound healing following an insult from iatrogenic or straddle trauma? If this is true, then is testosterone supplementation protective against urethral stricture disease?

Second, it is important to understand if TD impacts surgical outcomes. It is plausible that urethral stricture recurrence following surgery could be reduced by improving urethral vascularity and subsequently wound healing. Further, sexual side effects following urethroplasty have gained significant attention in the literature and are thought to be the result of vascular insults during surgery. The role of transecting vs non-transecting anastomotic urethroplasty is a highly debated topic in reconstructive urology. This debate focuses on the benefits of preserving the antegrade blood supply to the corpus spongiosum. A recent random-