the lysosome - and established research programs to determine how they performed their functions. In the final part of the chapter, therefore, I will provide a brief account of this research as well.

As I will show, the research extended far beyond the Rockefeller laboratory that provided the focus for most of the research described in the previous chapter. Nonetheless, it continued to play a central role, although the shape of the laboratory changed dramatically. In 1949 Claude accepted an invitation to direct the Jules Bordet Institute at the Université Libre de Bruxelles and left Rockefeller. In 1950 Murphy reached the mandatory retirement age (he died later the same year). At the Rockefeller Institute the usual procedure was to close a laboratory after the departure of a senior laboratory director (Member). However, in this instance, presumably in recognition of the pathbreaking work of the junior researchers and the investment in an electron microscope, Gasser took the unusual action of retaining Porter and Palade and promoting Porter to Associate Member and director of the laboratory. The characterization of the laboratory that year in the Annual Report reads, "During the period covered by this report studies on cell fine structures and related problems have been continued." (p. 143). The newly constituted Laboratory of Cytology moved to the basement of Theobald Smith Hall, where both the RCA EMU microscope that had been bought by the Rockefeller Foundation and a new RCA EMU-2A were installed.

Initially the group working with Porter and Palade was quite small. George Pappas spent two years as an Eli Lilly postdoctoral fellow. Maria Rudzinska, a protozoologist, worked with Porter. Sanford Palay and Don Fawcett, already faculty members at Yale and Harvard, respectively, spent considerable time visiting the laboratory. In 1955 Philip Siekevitz, a biochemist, joined the laboratory. In the middle 1950s the Rockefeller Institute was transformed from an exclusively research-oriented institution into a graduate university. The laboratories, previously staffed principally by scientists and postdoctoral researchers, now served as training centers for graduate students as well. Among the first graduate students in the laboratory were Mary Bonneville, Howard Rasmussen, Aaron Shatkin, Lee Peachey, and Peter Satir. ${ }^{2}$
\footnotetext{
${ }^{2}$ Peter Satir (Interview, 29 November 1995, Albert Einstein School of Medicine) related the unusual nature of the application process at Rockefeller in its first years as a university. President Bronk solicited nominations for graduate students from the top institutions in the country and interviewed applicants himself before directing them to the appropriate laboratories. According to Satir, Porter and Palade had been among the less eager investigators to make the transition to a graduate institution, but were exceptional in the support they provided to graduate students once they accepted them into the laboratory.
}