uses driving forces to estimate the bulk diffusion fluxes of mass $\mathcal{F}^{*}$ and energy $\mathcal{Q}^{*}$, when conserving either the species or the elements, was recently derived (Scoggins et al. 2020). The idea is to use the rigorous Maxwell model (Lachaud et al. 2017b) while simplifying its integration into the conservation equations by precomputing driving forces attributed to the pressure, temperature, and species mole fraction gradients. A simple model, inspired from the binary mixtures theory (Whitaker 1999), may be used as a first approximation to account for the porosity, $\epsilon_{\mathrm{g}}$, and the tortuosity, $\eta$, of the porous medium of interest. It reads

$$
\mathcal{F}=\frac{\epsilon_{\mathrm{g}}}{\eta} \mathcal{F}^{*}
$$

and

$$
\mathcal{Q}_{i}=\frac{\epsilon_{\mathrm{g}}}{\eta} \mathcal{Q}_{i}^{*}
$$

where $\eta$ is the material tortuosity factor.

\title{
4. THE ROLE OF EXPERIMENTS AND IMAGE-BASED DIRECT NUMERICAL SIMULATIONS
}

A combination of morphological, transport, and thermochemical properties are required to inform the closure model formulations presented in Section 3.4. An effective strategy consists of decoupling the multiphysics processes observed within an ablator into fundamental experiments under controlled conditions. Simple flow/material configurations are adopted, yet most experiments require a degree of computational modeling to extract the quantities of interest. Combined numerical/experimental approaches developed for lightweight carbon/phenolic ablators are reviewed in this section, with particular attention paid to image-based modeling techniques using X-ray computed microtomography $(\mu-\mathrm{CT})$. Recent advances in both synchrotron and laboratorybased $\mu$-CT and their application to ablator microstructures have provided access to a wealth of quantitative information for predicting ablator properties that are not easily attainable experimentally. Tomographic datasets describe porous media on a 3D grid of stacked gray images, where the voxel intensity value is proportional to the local material X-ray absorption. Morphological information on volume fraction of phases, material anisotropy, surface area, and porosity can be obtained from a straightforward analysis of material images or through direct numerical simulations (DNS). Figure $4 a$ shows the $\mu$-CT of FiberForm (the substrate of PICA), and Figure $4 b$ shows a flexible carbon felt used in the manufacture of conformal ablators. The microstructure of the material is resolved sufficiently, such that mesoscale features, including bulk porosity, fiber orientation, and anisotropic pore size, can be accurately computed using image segmentation and analysis (Ferguson et al. 2018). The images also resolve details at the microscale, such as fiber diameter, crenulated fiber cross-section, and fiber lumen (Panerai et al. 2017). An ongoing challenge in $\mu$-CT images of strongly anisotropic materials, such as weaves or fiber composites, is segmentation of the phases and determination of fiber and tow orientation. While these remain active areas of research, several methods to determine fiber orientation voxelwise from $\mu$-CT have been developed (Krause et al. 2010, MacNeil et al. 2019, Semeraro et al. 2020). Also noteworthy are recent advances in the quantification of uncertainties on effective properties calculated from 3D images due to segmentation errors (Krygier et al. 2021). A further challenge in thermal transport modeling is to numerically ensure the continuity of temperature and heat flux at the surface of each voxel. For this, the multipoint flux approximation class of methods is efficient and accurate (Semeraro et al. 2021, Aavatsmark 2002).