code (Chen \& Milos 1999) and the Charring Ablator Response (CHAR) code (Amar et al. 2011) for TPS design and sizing. The underlying physical models in these tools are built on the Aerotherm model described in a collection of well-known reports from 1968 (Kendall et al. 1968).

The past decade has witnessed renewed interest in the development of ablation response codes and improved ablation models (Amar et al. 2011, Lachaud \& Mansour 2014, Lachaud et al. 2017b, Meurisse et al. 2018, Weng et al. 2021). The new interest was motivated by the retirement of NASA's Space Shuttle fleet and by new flight data available for model assessment and validation. The recovery of the Stardust heatshield enabled in-depth postflight analysis of PICA (Stackpoole et al. 2008), demonstrating in-depth density variations and volume ablation (Lachaud et al. 2010). The data from MSL Entry, Descent, and Landing Instrumentation (MEDLI) (Gazarik et al. 2008) and MEDLI-2 provided time traces of in-depth thermal responses of PICA, revealing discrepancies between flight data and engineering predictions (Bose et al. 2014). Today, higherfidelity ablation models are needed that enable robust reliability analyses and reduced margins, model TPS coatings and interfaces, and predict material responses to exotic atmospheres of unexplored planets. The steps of formulating state-of-the-art ablation models are reviewed in this article.

In Section 2, we discuss the pyrolysis and ablation phenomena that lightweight ablators experience when exposed to high heating rates. In Section 3, we review the theory of volume averaging and then summarize the governing equations (Section 3.4) that describe the thermochemical and chemistry processes within a low-density porous ablator. The formulation is general and can be adapted across ablator types, such as closed porosity media (e.g., AVCOAT) or dense carbon/phenolic ablators. It is also applicable to the analysis of any reactive porous medium at high temperature, including pyrolyzing biomasses, burning wood, and fire-protection materials. In Section 4, we describe experiments and computations at the microscale that support the development and closure of ablation models, with a focus on image-based simulations of effective properties and responses at the microscale and mesoscale. In Section 5, we review recent trends in modeling flows over porous media coupled with the environment and the flow within the porous material. Rapid progress is being achieved for incompressible flows in this area, and several efforts toward formulating a unified solver for TPS response are showing promise. In Section 6, we review exploration missions that have provided flight data on the heatshield response during Mars atmospheric entry. Planned Mars sample return missions have the potential to bring new data that will be used in the coming decades to validate theory and model developments.

\title{
2. ABLATION PHENOMENA
}

The main processes that occur when a PICA-class ablator is exposed to extreme heating are illustrated in Figure 1. The porous structure of a low-density carbon/phenolic ablator is made of a carbon-bonded carbon fiber preform (skeleton) with volume fractions of the order of $\epsilon_{\text {fiber }} \simeq$ 0.1 and pore diameters $d_{\text {pore }} \simeq 50-100 \mu \mathrm{m}$. Carbon fibers of the preform are discontinuous and have a diameter $d_{\text {fiber }} \approx 5-10 \mu \mathrm{m}$, depending on their precarbonization origin and graphitization process. They are organized in a layered transverse isotropic structure [i.e., they are preferentially $\left( \pm 20^{\circ}\right)$ aligned along a plane of isotropy]. This architecture favors in-plane heat transfer and flow transport compared to the through-thickness direction, improving insulation capabilities and limiting permeation of hot boundary layer gases into the material. Rigidity of the preform is achieved by bonding at fiber intersections by discrete regions of a carbon matrix. The pore space between the fibers is filled with a nano-dispersed high-surface-area resin matrix, with characteristic pore scales of $d_{\text {resin }} \simeq 1-100 \mathrm{~nm}$. The matrix has volume fractions of $\epsilon_{\text {resin }} \simeq 0.05-0.15$, rendering bulk solid fractions $\epsilon_{\text {bulk }} \simeq \epsilon_{\text {fiber }}+\epsilon_{\text {resin }} \simeq 0.15-0.25$ (i.e., porosities of $\epsilon_{\text {pore }}=1-\epsilon_{\text {bulk }} \simeq 0.75-0.85$ ).