reduction of pore opening due to deposition and fouling will be much more complicated. We do not expect significant change in membrane thickness or tortuosity of the pores resulting from contamination, deposition, and fouling.

\section*{5. Complete and partial pore entry by water}

The literature suggests polypropylene hollow fiber membranes may experience water intrusion and reduction in surface contact angle when submerged in deionized water from $\theta_{o}>115^{\circ}$ to $100^{\circ}$ for 90 days at room temperature [37]. Although the membrane was from a different supplier, contact angle reduction is likely after prolonged exposure to water. Particulates and scaling also can increase the hydrophilicity of the pore inner surface. Although a surfactant can enhance water evaporation rate from oil-in-water emulsion [38], it severely reduces water surface tension [39] and liquid entry pressure (LEP). Fig. S12 in the Supplementary information shows SWME heat rejection when some portions of the pores are larger size $(0-10 \%$ pores with $200 \mathrm{~nm}$ average diameter, which is consistent with the SEM images and pore size distribution in Fig. S3). As seen, presence of larger pore increases the heat rejection because of higher $S_{p}$ values. However, liquid water intrusion, if it occurs, can have serious consequences. Pore intrusion of liquid water can be analyzed using Laplace-Young equation (Eq. (11)), which relates liquid intrusion pressure as a function of four parameters: geometric factor ( $=1$ for cylindrical pores), water surface tension, contact angle between the liquid and surface and average pore diameter.

The geometric factor $\left(\mathrm{B}_{\mathrm{g}}\right)$ is less than 1.0 for non-cylindrical pores, usually 0.4-0.6 for the pores in stretched membranes [40]. As a result, liquid entry pressure can be half for stretched membrane pores, based on the geometric factor for similar sized cylindrical pores. At the operating lumen pressure ( 1.2 bar), liquid water may enter $>100 \mathrm{~nm}$ pores for a contact angle of $95^{\circ}$ and $>200 \mathrm{~nm}$ pores for a contact angle of $100^{\circ}$. Presence of organics can also affect the surface tension of water, however the effect should be negligible (as a reference, presence of $1 \mathrm{mM}$ SDS (288 ppm) reduced water surface tension by $3 \%$, whereas $2 \mathrm{mM}$ SDS (576 ppm) reduces water surface tension by $9-10 \%$ [39]. Fig. 10a illustrates LEP as a function of average pore diameter and contact angle for different liquid water surface tension ( $40-70 \mathrm{mN} / \mathrm{m}$ ). The corresponding contour plots are provided in Fig. 10b-e, where each line represents a fixed LEP for a combination of average pore diameter and contact angle. If LEP $=1$ bar, significant water entry in the pores will occur and potentially lead to system failure.

If partial liquid entry happens due to hydrophilization, the vapor path length is reduced which will increase $S_{P}$, and the flux in such case can be found by using Eq. (12). While the effect of water entry on $S_{p}$ may not be significant, the presence of a stagnant liquid layer also will affect the interface temperature between the liquid and vapor (not the temperature at pore entry) and the associated water vapor pressure driving evaporation as it introduces an additional thermal resistance.

Chamani et al. [29] have modeled partial and full pore entry by the liquid due to hydrophobicity change, which will be important during SWME operation in case of hydrophobicity change. Their results suggest the net effect of partial liquid entry will be small as the increase in vapor flux from reduced vapor path length offsets the increase in thermal resistance due to the stagnant liquid layer.

Membrane thickness has profound impact on permeant flux during vacuum membrane distillation, as well as heat transfer increase for low membrane thickness [41]. Hence, thermal performance should increase due to apparent vapor path reduction as a result of partial liquid entry. However, due to the presence of stagnant liquid layer things is much complicated. But the net effects should not be detrimental in terms of $\mathrm{S}_{\mathrm{p}}$.

It should be noted that a non-equilibrium evaporation layer exists at the interface between liquid and vapor. The thickness of this layer is given by Eq. (S23)in the Supplementary information [42]. Fig. S13 shows the calculated thickness of Knudsen layer as a function of pore temperature (interface temperature for partial pore entry). If the length of vapor path ( $\delta_{\mathrm{v}}$ ) is less than Knudsen layer flux equation will not be valid to describe the system.

\subsection*{5.1. Analysis of critical failure modes for SWME module}

Based on the model results and subsequent analysis, several critical failure modes can be deduced for NASA SWME module. If liquid water penetrates completely through the fraction of the pores (due to hydrophilization), it will vaporize in the shell side (For example $1 \%$ of pore leakage leads to $3.3 \mathrm{~kg} / \mathrm{h}$ of additional water loss from the system according to Hagen-Poiseuille equation). Since the reservoir capacity is around $3.6 \mathrm{~kg}$ of water, this water loss due to pore leakage will sustain the spacewalk activity only for $1-2 \mathrm{~h}$.

Burst pressure of different polymeric fibers were found to be more than 30 bars from temperature -40 to $160^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ [43]. Hence, high lumen water pressure induced fiber bursting is improbable based on an intended operational pressure of SWME water less than 1.2 bar in space. However, if any fiber detachment happens from epoxy casing, liquid water loss will be significant and reduce spacesuit operational time.

The presence of surfactant can reduce vapor pressure [44] and the driving force for evaporation significantly. This detrimental effect on thermal performance occurs even if water does not enter the pore due to a reduction in LEP; water passage through the pores (weeping) will just exacerbate the detrimental effects. Surfactant will not be introduced intentionally but potential sources of accidental introduction should be mitigated.

Another failure mode is associated with reduction of $S_{p}$ due to pore blockage, contamination, precipitation of particulates, and/or organic fouling. As shown in Fig. S9 in the Supplementary information, a reduction in $S_{P}$ results in reduced thermal performance and a corresponding increase in the outlet temperatures. If $\mathrm{T}_{\text {out }}$ is more than the desired value (say $10^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$ ), the shell side pressure control valve in SWME will open more to bring it down. However, when the vacuum reaches maximum (surface pressure of Mars is 7 torr), further opening of pressure control valve will not produce desired outlet temperature and target heat rejection cannot be achieved.

\section*{6. Conclusions}

This work develops a comprehensive predictive mathematical model to estimate the thermal performance of the NASA spacesuit water membrane evaporator (SWME). The model was developed by considering mass and energy balance during the evaporation of water through the membrane pores along with diffusive transport of water vapor through the pores and differential Hagen-Poiseuille equation for lumen side water pressure drop. The model correlates critical input variables: inlet water temperature, inlet water mass flow rate, shell side pressure and overall membrane structure parameter $\left(S_{P}\right)$ to thermal performance output parameters: heat rejections, outlet water temperature, temperature drop, and lumen side pressure drop. NASA reported experimental thermal performance data was used to fit the model and estimate $S_{P}$ to be $1.04 \times 10^{-4}$, which, based on the experimentally measured average pore diameter (using SEM) and volumetric porosity (by nitrogen adsorption) provides a tortuosity value between 2.44 and 2.67 . After validation, the model was used to perform a detailed sensitivity analysis to study the effect of input variables changes on the output thermal performance parameters. Heat rejection increases (and outlet water temperature decreases) with increasing membrane parameter and/or inlet water temperature but decreases with higher shell side pressure, as expected. An approximate algebraic solution for the model was also developed by considering average physical properties, which was found to be applicable for $\mathrm{T}_{\mathrm{in}}<8{ }^{\circ} \mathrm{C}$. The role of particulates, contaminants and foulants on thermal performance of SWME unit was analyzed and discussed as well as partial pore entry caused by hydrophobicity change in the entrance portion of the pores (lumen side). For example, a 45\% reduction in $\mathrm{S}_{\mathrm{P}}$ (due to pore blockage and/or pore size reduction) is