in AUS erosions in men with TD. In this paper, Hofer et al. [18] evaluated serum testosterone levels in 53 consecutive patients who presented for follow-up after AUS placement. They defined TD as \(<280 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}\). Twenty patients had an AUS erosion, of which 18 (90\%) had TD [18]. Only \(9 \%\) of men with normal serum testosterone had an erosion. In a multivariate analysis, TD was independently associated with AUS erosion [18]. Interestingly, on multivariate analysis, radiation was not associated with AUS erosion although a higher number of patients with erosion had prior radiation therapy \((80 \%\) vs \(51 \%, p=0.038\) ) [18]. The same group performed a larger retrospective review of all patients who underwent AUS by a single surgeon [19]. They identified 161 men who underwent AUS and had a perioperative serum testosterone level. Low serum testosterone levels were more common in those patients who had urethral erosion. Men with TD were more likely to have urethral erosion (OR 2.519, \(p=0.021\) ). Again, on their multivariate analysis, TD was the only factor associated with urethral erosion [19].

Prior pelvic radiation therapy, AUS surgery, and prior urethral reconstruction are known risk factors for AUS urethral erosion [20-22] and all impact periurethral vascularity. Radiation therapy creates an obliterative endarteritis, and prior urethral dissection places the urethra at risk of partial devascularization and atrophy [18]. Compromise to urethral vascularity appears to confer the risk of urethral sub-cuff atrophy and erosion. Since testosterone is known to mediate angiogenesis, this work stimulated further investigations regarding testosterone's impact on urethral vascularity [18].

\section*{3. Testosterone and Urethral Vascularity}

Following the findings by Hofer et al. [18] in 2016, the same group explored androgen mediated vascularity in men with normal and low serum testosterone levels. They compared androgen receptor (AR) expression, its downstream target the angiopoietin-1 receptor (TIE-2), and the overall vascularity or vessel count in urethral stricture tissue of men who underwent urethroplasty. The cohort consisted of 11 men who had a serum testosterone level within 2 years of urethroplasty. They found decreased expression of AR ( \(1.11 \%\) high power field [HPF] vs \(1.62, p=0.016)\), TIE-2 (1.84\% HPF vs \(3.08, p=0.006)\), and overall vessel count ( 44.47 vessels/HPF vs \(98.33, p=0.004\) ) in men with serum testosterone less than \(280 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}\). They also noted a non-significant correlation between vessel count and serum testosterone [23]. This study consisted of a very select cohort of patients. During the study period, approximately 1200 patients underwent urethroplasty at this institution, but only 11 met inclusion criteria of having perioperative serum testosterone level which certainly introduces a degree of selection bias. Despite the limitations of this article, the authors suggest a mechanistic model of low serum testosterone on decreased urethral and corpus spongiosum vasculogenesis regulated through the AR and TIE-2 receptors [23]. AR mediated vasculogenesis is complex and there are likely additional factors involved in this process within the urethral and periurethral tissue such as VEGF or HIF\(1 \alpha\); however, no papers to date have explored the role of this mechanism.

Levy et al. [24] explored pathological markers in urethral stricture tissue of LS and non-LS patients. The authors' objective was to evaluate the pathophysiology of LS strictures by analyzing protein expression related to inflammation, cell cycle disruption, oxidative stress, hormone receptor status, and infection. Admittedly, the goal of this paper was not to explore androgen specific effects on urethral strictures. They examined tissue from 81 urethral strictures and found loss of AR in \(43 \%\) of all strictures. There was no difference between LS and non-LS strictures. Interestingly, they also found that nearly two-thirds of strictures expressed high levels of VEGF [24]. This series did not assess the serum testosterone levels and therefore conclusions regarding the impact of serum testosterone on AR and VEGF cannot be drawn from this series. However, the results are interesting and add to the work by Hofer et al. [23] demonstrating alterations in the expression of the AR in urethral stricture disease.

\section*{4. Testosterone Deficiency and Urethral Stricture Disease}

Spencer et al. [25] performed a retrospective review of patients undergoing urethroplasty by two surgeons at two institutions. Preoperative testosterone assessment was part of the standard practice of both surgeons They excluded patients with a history of pelvic radiation, prostatectomy, or pelvic fracture urethral injury. Overall \(157 / 202\) met inclusion criteria of which 115 had preoperative testosterone. These authors found \(56.5 \%\) of men undergoing urethroplasty had TD as defined by serum testosterone \(<300 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}\). BMI was associated with low testosterone levels \((p<0.00001)\). They compared this group to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) database. During 2011-2012 all males in the NHANES dataset had testosterone levels assessed and men \(>18\) years were included as a comparison group. The NHANES group has 2575 men for analysis of which \(28 \%\) had serum testosterone \(<300 \mathrm{ng} / \mathrm{dL}\) [25].

The authors then analyzed stricture characteristics among men with low and normal testosterone levels. Men with low testosterone levels had higher BMI, \(36 \mathrm{~kg} / \mathrm{m}^{2}\) vs \(29 \mathrm{~kg} / \mathrm{m}^{2}(p<0.00001)\). In men with low serum testosterone, stricture length was significantly longer than in the normal testosterone group, \(7.2 \mathrm{~cm}\) vs \(4.8 \mathrm{~cm}(p=0.02)\). They found no difference in stricture etiology between groups with normal and low serum testosterone. On multivariate analysis, TD remained associated with stricture length \((p=0.015)\) [25]. Despite the obvious limitations of using a national database as the comparison group and