---
id: lxagjmq97cfful42mr4xkyw
title: Discussion
desc: ''
updated: 1748637193857
created: 1661539559753
---
Using LLMs poses a risk of hallucination but by providing source material in form of a PDF the LLMs task becomes easier by turning the task of educational material generation from scratch to a translation task, translating from PDF content to card format. Cards should always be reviewed prior to using them as serious educational content. One of the major goals of developing Swanki was to produce better cards, but this criteria is often ill-defined and depends on aesthetics and expertise of the educator. We choose to use a sliding window technique to get content over the entire document allowing the educator to prune cards according to their needs. This should help ease the burden of the educator as reviewing material is often faster than generating it from scratch.

On April 23, 2025 the executive order Advancing Artificial Intelligence Education for American Youth was signed in the United States  @ordersAdvancingArtificialIntelligence2025a . The policy aims at increasing AI proficiency by integrating AI into education. Since Swanki can be used for any PDF we believe the software supports Sec. 6 "Improving Education Through Artificial Intelligence," as students and teachers can use the software to learn about AI by creating content on AI, but also by inspecting the open source software itself. We also believe that it supports Sec. 7 "Enhancing Training for Educations on Artificial Intelligence," by reducing the time intensive task of educational content creation. The app can also be used to help educators learn about modern AI techniques as these techniques are being used in other fields (Figure 1B, 1C, 1D).

While we push the limits of the types of content that Anki can natively represent, there are additional card types that we plan to support given enough community interest. To eliminate some of the manual cutting and stitching together of PDFs to remove superfluous information prior to sending the PDF to Swanki, implementing an model context protocol (MCP) server for use of Swanki could further eliminate some of the barriers to using the tool by allowing it to be called with only natural language. To further democratize the tool, our first step will be add support for open sourced models that can be run locally to reduce total cost of card generation. Additionally, we would like to find an open source drop in replacement for Mathpix, but this is difficult as bad optical character recognition at the start of the pipeline leads to garbled outputs. Additional cards could be supported such as image occlusion cards, where the content of interest in an image is occluded by a bounding box. This could be achieved using a semantic segmentation model to draw bounding boxes according to concepts elicited from the figure descriptions and the text. While the current pipeline can account for chemical structures via images,  support of smile string rendering would be beneficial to parse long synthesis diagrams into component parts for more atomized card generation. Another feature would be to expand the scope of inputs to include videos. We find that PDFs cover most use cases since pptx, docx, etc. can often just be converted to PDF without any meaningful information loss. Video poses a larger challenge to synchronize transcripts with video frames to extract meaningful images and text for card generation. Cards generated from video could also allow for gifs which are supported by Anki. This would involve bounding frames of interest then simply converting video to gif and prompting for appropriately related questions. We show such a gif for linear algebra vector operations which can be found on github. Lastly, our most ambitious idea is to auto generate gifs programmatically via libraries such as manim that were developed for producing programmatic visualizations of mathematics. The idea is to go from text to program to gif output paired with appropriate questions. We envision that further feature development and open sourcing of swanki and similar educational tools will foster expertise of students in any domain.
