\title{
1. INTRODUCTION
}

At 20:55 UTC on February 18, 2021, the Mission Control Center at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory received confirmation of touchdown of the Mars 2020 mission at the Jezero Crater on Mars. The Mars 2020 spacecraft delivered Perseverance, a rover, and Ingenuity, a small robotic helicopter. It is the fifth spacecraft of NASA's Mars Exploration Program to successfully land a payload on the surface of the Red Planet. This achievement follows a series of successful landings by the Mars Exploration Rover, Phoenix, the Mars Science Laboratory (MSL), and Insight. Critical to the success of those missions is a series of spacecraft technologies that enable entry, descent, and landing (EDL), the shortest and most intense phase of exploration missions to planets with atmospheres. This phase is fondly referred to as "seven minutes of terror."

During entry, spacecraft blast through the atmosphere at hypersonic velocity, experiencing extreme aerodynamic heating. Blunt bodies, introduced in the early 1950s by H. Julian (Harvey) Allen (Allen \& Eggers 1953, Vincenti et al. 2007), are the most effective technical solution to handle extreme heating. They produce a large drag that rapidly decelerates the spacecraft and a detached bow shock that transfers far less heat to the vehicle than do oblique shocks generated by aerodynamically slender shapes. Allen's blunt body theory led to the development of ablative heatshields, a class of thermal protection system (TPS) materials that dissipate aerodynamic heating through thermo-chemo-mechanical decomposition processes. Compared with the reusable class, of which the Space Shuttle tiles are perhaps the most notable example, ablators are single-mission heatshield materials and enable spacecraft to survive entry velocities in excess of \(10 \mathrm{~km} / \mathrm{s}\), such as those experienced during Moon or far Solar System return missions. Blunt bodies and ablative heatshields were instrumental in bringing the exploration pioneers back from the Moon during the Apollo program. They also protect intercontinental ballistic missiles from large peak heating at relatively low altitudes. Today, ablative heatshields are effectively used in defense, transportation, energy, and space exploration systems.

This review covers flow mechanics and thermochemical processes in lightweight, highly porous ablative heatshields for atmospheric entry. We focus on TPS materials characterized by densities below \(0.5 \mathrm{~g} / \mathrm{cm}^{3}\) and large porosities ( \(\gtrsim 80 \%\) ). This class is designed to achieve superior insulation performance by reducing the through-thickness heat transfer and by producing endothermic chemical processes within the material that blow cool gases through the structure into the boundary layer. A prominent example within the low-density class is NASA's phenolic impregnated carbon ablator (PICA), a porous material \(\left(\sim 0.3 \mathrm{~g} / \mathrm{cm}^{3}\right)\) made of a rigid carbon fiber preform (FiberForm) and infused with a cross-linked phenolic resin (SC-1008). The Stardust sample return capsule, the fastest human-made object to enter Earth's atmosphere ( \(12 \mathrm{~km} / \mathrm{s}\) ) to date, was equipped with a monolithic PICA TPS, while returning samples from the coma of the Wild 2 comet. Both Mars 2020 and MSL used a tiled PICA heatshield for thermal protection during atmospheric entry. SpaceX has adopted a variant of PICA, named PICA-X, to outfit its Dragon spacecraft for return from low Earth orbit. PICA-class heatshield materials such as ASTERM and Zuram are being developed in Europe for space exploration missions. We refer the reader to Natali et al. (2016) for a comprehensive review of the materials science of ablative TPS.

Sizing of the heatshield is a critical task in the design process of an atmospheric entry system. Preliminary selection and performance assessment are based on analytical entry heating calculations. Given an anticipated trajectory, the maximum heat flux \(\dot{q}_{\max }\) and maximum surface-averaged heat flux \(\bar{q}_{\text {max }}\) drive material selection, while the time integrated heat input (or heat load) \(Q\) informs the material volume (thickness) required for thermal protection. For detailed design and qualification, researchers use engineering material response codes to compute the temperature at the interface between the ablator and its carrying structure, and perform sizing and margin analyses based on stochastic simulations. NASA uses the Fully Implicit Ablation and Thermal (FIAT)