(Marschall \& Milos 1998, Panerai et al. 2016). Values at high temperatures can be easily estimated by scaling the effective permeability with gas viscosity, temperature, and molar mass to the values at room temperature, and corrections can be made to account for variability in material density. Tortuosity factors of fibrous ablators have been inferred using image-based simulations using both simplified geometries and 3D microtomography images. The factor was computed at all Knudsen regimes, from continuum to rarefied, by simulating Brownian motion diffusion with the use of random walk particle methods, DSMC, and finite-volume solutions of the diffusion equation, finding excellent agreement between the three techniques (see Ferguson et al. 2022 and references therein).

\title{
4.3. Chemical Transport and Rates
}

Pyrolysis decomposition is conventionally measured using a combination of thermogravimetric analysis and gas analysis techniques (e.g., gas chromatography and mass spectrometry), providing variation of material density as a function of time and temperature and quantification of gaseous products, respectively (Sykes 1967, Trick \& Saliba 1995, Trick et al. 1997). As part of recent experimental efforts, custom pyrolysis reactors have been developed to study the decomposition of PICA (Wong et al. 2016, Bessire \& Minton 2017). Bessire \& Minton (2017) showed that molar yields from the thermal decomposition of the phenolic resin SC-1008, used in most carbon/phenolic ablators, are dependent on heat rate, suggesting that pyrolysis of PICA is a nonequilibrium process.

Heterogeneous gas-material interactions remain an active field of research. Carbon-oxygen and carbon-nitrogen reactions at high temperature have been among the most studied processes in the literature, but many challenges remain for ablative TPS. Charring ablators can be made with various types of carbon fibers [e.g., rayon, polyacrylonitrile (PAN), pitch, or lyocell derived] and annealed and processed at different temperatures. These yield substantially different material properties. In addition, they decompose into heterogeneous carbonaceous phases in which fibers and charred matrix have significantly different microstructures and reactivities. While observations from high-enthalpy experiments suggest that reaction rates with oxygen are faster for matrix carbon than for fiber carbon, there are no quantitative data on this differential decomposition. Flow tube reactor and molecular beam experiments remain the main source of data for carbon oxidation and nitridation (Panerai et al. 2014, 2019; Murray et al. 2015, 2020; Murray \& Minton 2019). The quantification of oxidation and nitridation products in molecular beam data has enabled the development of new finite-rate ablation models for the carbon-air system (Poovathingal et al. 2016, 2017; Swaminathan-Gopalan et al. 2018; Prata et al. 2022). Compared with old models (Park 1976, Zhluktov \& Abe 1999), these models tend to favor the formation of \(\mathrm{CO}\) relative to \(\mathrm{CO}_{2}\), which leads to higher temperatures and lower recession compared to the equilibrium \(B^{\prime}\) model. They show better agreement with experimental data (Candler 2019).

Image-based simulations enable modeling of the surface roughness during ablation. First developed for carbon/carbon ablators and extensively verified against analytical solutions (Lachaud 2006, Lachaud \& Vignoles 2009), these simulations have also been extended to porous carbon preforms (Ferguson et al. 2016, 2017, 2018; Panerai et al. 2017). Differences in ablation depth, differential reaction of matrix and fibers, and competing diffusion-reaction processes in rate-limited regimes are captured by these simulations and can be effectively used to predict microscale and mesoscale porous media evolution.

\section*{5. COUPLING THE ENVIRONMENT TO POROUS ABLATIVE MATERIAL}

Approaches to coupling the flow environment to the physics within porous systems follow three different levels of approximation (Chandesris \& Jamet 2007): (a) coupling down to the pore