transform of Equation 14 for single-phase systems defined in \(\mathbb{R}^{3}\). The split of the dependent variables for multiphase problems must consider that dependent variables are defined in \(\mathbb{R}_{\mathrm{p}}^{3}\) only and that their volume average is defined in \(\mathbb{R}^{3}\). The correct split defines the deviation with respect to the location of the AEV, \(\mathbf{x}\) (Bachmat \& Bear 1986). Given that \(\mathbf{q}_{\mathrm{p}}\) is defined only in phase-p, dependent variables are split as

\[
\mathbf{q}_{\mathrm{p}}(\mathbf{x}+\xi)=\gamma^{\mathrm{p}}(\mathbf{x}+\xi)\left\langle\mathbf{q}^{\mathrm{p}}\right\rangle(\mathbf{x})+\mathbf{q}_{\mathrm{p}}^{\prime \prime}(\mathbf{x}+\xi)
\]

Here the split is modified from Bachmat \& Bear's split by multiplying the intrinsic average, \(\left\langle\mathbf{q}^{\mathbf{p}}\right\rangle\), by \(\gamma^{\mathrm{p}}(\mathbf{x}+\xi)\) to be consistent with the fact that \(\mathbf{q}_{\mathrm{p}}(\mathbf{x}+\xi)\) is defined only in phase-p. Multiplying Equation 15 by \(\gamma^{\mathrm{p}}(\mathbf{x}+\boldsymbol{\xi}) \widehat{G}(\xi)\) and volume averaging yields

\[
\overline{\mathbf{q}^{\mathrm{p}}}=\epsilon_{\mathrm{p}}\left\langle\mathbf{q}^{\mathrm{p}}\right\rangle=\epsilon_{\mathrm{p}}\left\langle\mathbf{q}^{\mathrm{p}}\right\rangle+\overline{\left(\mathbf{q}^{\mathrm{p})^{\prime \prime}}\right.} \Rightarrow \overline{\left(\mathbf{q}^{\mathrm{p}}\right)^{\prime \prime}}=0
\]

In practice, order-of-magnitude analysis in porous media cases results in simplifications showing that differences between the two splits outlined in this section can be neglected (Davit et al. 2013). But the difference in the splits is important in IBM and LES applications.

\title{
3.4. Volume-Averaged Governing Equations of Ablators
}

In the free-stream region (environment) where \(\epsilon_{\mathrm{f}}=1\), the volume-averaged governing equations revert to the LES-averaged equations. Splitting the dependent variables as in Equation 15 results in lumping together the Leonard's terms and the subgrid stress terms. Modeling of hypersonic environments has been recently reviewed by Candler (2019) and is not addressed here. Current practices use turbulence models developed for low-speed flows for closure of the governing equations (Candler 2019). It can be anticipated that closure models that address the transition region between the environment and the porous material for modeling TPS will borrow from recent progress in modeling incompressible flows over porous media (Breugem 2005, Breugem et al. 2006, Wood \& Valdés-Parada 2013, Wood et al. 2020, Valdés-Parada \& Lasseux 2021).

Within the porous TPS material, \(\epsilon_{\mathrm{f}}<1\), the decomposition of the resin plays an important role in the protective function of the heatshield. The purpose of impregnating ablative composites with resin is to achieve endothermic resin decomposition that results in pressure buildup within the material that resists penetration of free-stream gases. The pressure within the porous material builds to levels of the surface pressure. Within the pores, the speed of gases generated by resin decomposition is a function of its decomposition rate. The decomposition rate of phenolic resin under typical atmospheric entry conditions and in-depth temperatures leads to low-speed viscous flows with velocities of the order of 0.2 to \(1 \mathrm{~m} / \mathrm{s}\) in pores of effective diameters in the submillimeter range. This results in low-Reynolds-number flows, \(\operatorname{Re}=\mathcal{O}(1)\), in the pores, well within the Darcy regime (Wood et al. 2020). Early resin pyrolysis models used a single kinetic equation of the Arrhenius form to represent the decomposition as a function of temperature (Scala \& Gilbert 1962). Unsatisfied with the performance of single-equation models, Goldstein (1965) introduced a two-reaction model that was immediately adopted by the community (Rindal et al. 1966). It is still used in today's mission designs and analyses (Chen \& Milos 1999, Beck et al. 2014, Wright et al. 2014, Meurisse et al. 2018). It is recognized that improvements to the engineering pyrolysis models are needed (Wright et al. 2015).

Modern pyrolysis models adopted in material response of TPS follow parallel decomposition reactions in which a solid phase, \(\mathrm{p}\), occupying a subspace, \(\mathbb{R}_{\mathrm{p}}^{3}\), is conceptually split into subphases, with intrinsic average density (Lachaud et al. 2017b),

\[
\left\langle\rho_{\mathrm{p}, c}\right\rangle=F_{\mathrm{p}, c}\left\langle\rho_{\mathrm{p}}\right\rangle
\]