American Society for Cell Biology. Two abstained, but it is not clear who they were. The committee decided that those voting in favor would form the provisional council for the new society, and yet fourteen of the fifteen attended the next meeting on 28 May 1960. The only person who did not attend was McElroy, the representative of the SGP, but even his name appeared on the list of the provisional council, which was supplied in the October 1960 proposal to the NIH to fund the first scientific meeting of the society as well as in the official announcement of the ASCB in November 1960. Keith Porter was selected to chair the provisional council and Morgan Harris was elected secretary.

As with the Journal of Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology, a major question for the new society was how to ensure the desired mix of specialties in order not to find itself limited to morphology. The proposal to the NIH to fund the first scientific meeting stated, "Membership is expected to include biochemists, biophysicists, cytologists, histologists, microbiologists, physiologists, and others having a common interest in the cell" and made it clear that the program for the first meeting was to "facilitate interdisciplinary communication among cell biologists." One of the prime vehicles for accomplishing this end was the inclusion of invited symposia at the annual meetings. For the first meeting, held in Chicago in November 1961, symposia were organized on three topics: cell continuity, cell diversification, and the characters of cell interfaces. The program committee, chaired by Hewson Swift, sought to include speakers from the broad list of disciplines identified in the NIH proposal. \({ }^{22}\) The bulk of the program consisted of contributed papers, which were accepted without review. Albert von Szent-Györgyi presented a banquet address entitled "The fusion of biological dimensions." A sense of the
\footnotetext{
22 To recruit attendees for the first meeting and members for the society, the ASCB used a mailing list consisting of biologists included on the membership lists of the American Society of Anatomists, American Society of Naturalists, American Society of Zoologists, Botanical Society of America, Genetics Society of American, Gordon Research Conference on Cell Structure and Metabolism, Histochemical Society, Radiation Research Society, Society for Cell Biology (presumably the international society), Society of Protozoologists, and Tissue Culture Association. It is noteworthy that biochemical and biophysical societies are absent from this list, although additional names were later added from the membership list of the American Society of Biological Chemists. In November 1960, 2808 printed announcements were sent to the list thus compiled and by 27 January 1961, a total of 1187 replies requesting applications and additional information had been received. In the minutes of the 28 January 1961 meeting of the provisional council, it was noted that "most of the fields related to cell biology, such as biochemistry, microbiology, anatomy, pathology, histochemistry, cytology, electron microscopy, tissue culture, etc., were well represented. Botany and biophysics were two areas that were not well represented."
}