in achieving the desired interdisciplinary mix. Disciplinary mix was the topic that dominated discussions in both the council and the executive committee of the ASCB in its early years. One upshot of these discussions was the strategy of using the invited symposia to bring in more biochemists and biophysicists. After the first meeting, the ASCB also decided that accepting all submissions was not possible, so a limit was placed on the number of contributed paper slots for the 1963 meeting. It was also determined that, in addition to quality, decisions as to which papers to accept would be based in part on disciplinary approach: "It was pointed out that some control over the program content might be necessary in order to attract, for example, biochemists, who are needed by the Society, and to prevent the Society from becoming identified with any one technique or discipline (for example, fine structure)" (Minutes of ASCB Council Meeting, 4 November 1962).

The society followed much the same strategies as the journal in attempting to deal with this issue. One strategy was to include biochemists and more functionally oriented scientists on the council in hopes that they could help attract members. Thus, David Green, a biochemist and one of the codirectors of the Institute for Enzyme Research at the University of Wisconsin, was included in the second meeting of the provisional council and was elected as one of the members of the council at the first meeting of the society in 1961. (By this time, however, Green's credibility among biochemists was in some doubt. After his proposal of a cyclophorase system for oxidative phosphorylation, discussed in the previous chapter, his work was regarded as increasingly speculative.) At the same meeting Alex Novikoff, a biochemist and histochemist at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, became presidentelect and accordingly served as the society's second president in 1962-3. In appointing the nominating committee in January 1963, Novikoff followed a recommendation of the council and requested that the nominating committee nominate two biochemists to run for president-elect. The committee complied by nominating Van Potter and Harry Eagle, and Potter won the election to become the fourth president of the society. \({ }^{23}\)

For the 1964 meeting of the society David Green served as program chair, and the resulting program had a strong biochemical presence. The invited symposia became a three-part symposium on biological membranes. The first part focused on three topics: energized ion translocation in membrane systems, contractile proteins of membrane systems, and structural proteins
\footnotetext{
\({ }^{23}\) Hewson Swift, whose research embraced both electron microscopy and cytochemistry and focused on processes in the cell nucleus, was elected vice president when Novikoff became president, and immediately succeeded Novikoff as the third president.
}